# CS50W Capstone
## Distinctiveness and Complexity:
### Distinctiveness: 
The purpose of this project is to help people maintain a productive and healthy lifestyle, and that is why it is called IProductivity. Every user has the ability to create a profile, which keeps tracks of all the tasks/hobbies the user assigns to themselves each day. When a new profile is created, the user starts from Day Number 1 and they can start using the program by assigning themselves tasks and hobbies that should undertake that day. Each task has a respective number of points that varies from 1 to 50 and reflects the difficulty of it ("1" considered easy and "50" considered very demanding). Every hobby is assigned a a number of points as well, ranging from 1 to 100, which reflect how much time does this hobby take you from the day and how much it makes you happy ("1" would be something that does not give you very much joy and takes little time meanwhile "100" is the maximum for something that takes a lot of time and gives you a lot of happiness).  After assigning the tasks and hobbies for the day, the user has the abilities to delete the task/hobby (if they no longer had to do it, or it is no longer considered appropriate), or mark the task/hobby as complete/incomplete (based on the current status). Everytime a task is marked as complete, the number of points for that tasks are added to the Daily Total Points count. The moment the task is marked as incomplete, the points are removed from the Daily Total Points count. On the other side, completing a hobby removes points from your Daily Total Points count, and marking is as incomplete adds points to your Daily Total Points count. At the end of the day, the user looks at their Daily Total Points Count to see if the day was mostly Productive (The count is positive),  Balanced ( the count is close to 0) , Unproductive (the count is less than 0). At the end of the day, the user can submit the day to mark it as completed and start a new day. The Daily Total Points of that day will be added/substracted from the Total Points of the user (keeps track of all the points collected throughtout the days completed.). The user has also the ability to see their Profile which includes information such as the date they joined, number of days completed, friends , Total Points and also the details of the previous completed days  (such as Tasks/Hobbies of that day, their respective points and statuses, and also the Total Points Collected for that day). There is also a leaderboard which ranks the users based on their Total Points. Users can see other users' information such as Date Joined, Total Points, Username and Friends Count. If they want to see the other users Previous Completed Days, then they have to send a Friend Request which can be accepted/declined from the other person. If it is accepted, the two users are now considered as "Friends" and can both see each-others Completed Days history. Declining a friend request, removing a user from your "Friends", or not being "Friends" with a user restricts this information. 
Since the purpose and structure of this project has little to no similarities with any other project, I consider it something distinct.

### Complexity
The structure of this project requires different models to continuously be in sync with each-other in order to make it work. Also, in order to make the page as UserFriendly as possible, a lot of JavaScript has been used for the Front-End (most of the actions taken by the user do not require a reload or another page to render), and also Bootstrap has been used to make the page more attractive. Connecting the requests with the front-end and fetching them to the back-end effectively in a secured way is also something that required effort. All in all, this project required me around 70 hours of work (coding + research + debugging) as everything was created from scratch. I must admit that even though it was the most demanding project I have ever done, I enjoyed it.


## File Structure
IProductive\urls.py --> Contains all the URLs and API patterns
IProductive\models.py --> Contains all the models that are required for the app.
IProductive\admin.py --> Makes changes to the Django Admin User Interface
IProductive\static\IProductive --> Contains the JavaScript (script.js) File that has functions that handle requests/events made from users), also contains a CSS file (styles.css) that has code that changes the presentation of the web page.
IProductive\templates\IProductive --> Contains the HTML pages that will be rendered in this project.
IProductive\views.py --> Has all the functions for the back-end part of the program.
## How to run the application
CD into the project directory and then execute the following code in the terminal
```sh
python manage.py runserver
```
